US Flights Case Study

Scenario:
A client has provided you with a flat file export containing data about 
domestic flights in the United States. The analytics consultant that you 
are working with needs the file loaded into a database and appropriately 
modeled for use with business intelligence tools. In this case, that tool 
is Tableau.

Goal:
The goal of this case is to assess your ability to:

1.	Work with unfamiliar data and quickly gain familiarity with that data.
2.	Load the data from a source into a target database
3.	Transform the data into a normalized, dimensional data model with 
    appropriate data types
4.	Think critically about preparing data for business users and analytics 
    consultants
5.	Present issues with data quality that do not have obvious solutions 
    and solve issues that do have more straightforward solutions

Data
The data is provided as a compressed flat file. The file is encoded in 
UTF-8 and is delimited by the pipe character. Column headers are provided 
on the first line. 

Case Requirements
1.	Load the provided data into the PostgreSQL instance using the provided 
    credentials.
2.	Create and load one Fact table to contain data about the flights.
3.	Create and load appropriate Dimension table(s).
4.	Create a view that joins your Fact table to your Dimension tables and 
    returns columns useful for analysis.
5.	Prepare a 10-15 minute presentation to show your work, discuss your 
    approach and any data quality issues that were encountered and your resolution to these issues.

Additional Details and Instructions:

Fact Table
1.	Create an additional column called distance_group that bins the distance 
    values into groups in 100 mile increments. Example: 94 miles is 0-100 miles. 
    274 miles is 201-300 miles.
2.	Create an additional column that indicates if the departure delay in 
    minutes (DEPDELAY) is greater than 15.
3.	Create an additional column that indicates if the flight arrival time 
    (ARRTIME) is the next day after the departure time (DEPTIME).
4.	Choose appropriate data types and perform conversions to load the data 
    from the source into these types.
5.	Fix obviously bad data when encountered, if possible. Note these instances.

Dimension Table(s)
1.	Create at least one dimension table and load it from the source data.
2.	Use your judgment about what columns from the source data should end up 
    in the dimension tables. Be prepared to explain your decisions.
3.	Clean up the Airline Name column by removing the Airline Code from it.
4.	Clean up the Airport Name fields by removing the concatenated city and state.
5.	Fix obviously bad data when encountered, if possible. Note these instances.


